Perhaps one of the saddest stories
surrounding the invention of new healing technologies
is one that dates back about 70 years,
the story of Royal Raymond Rife.
Rife invented a microscope, the likes of which
the world had never seen,
enabling Rife to define the frequency of living viruses,
bacteria, fungi, and other pathogens.
Once identified, an electrical frequency could kill them.
So powerful is this technology that the doctors affiliated
with Rife declared an end to cancer and disease
back in the 1930s.
What happened from there is a shameful blight
on the progress of medicine and healing.
Steven Ross, founder of the World Research Foundation,
is a major link in this story,
as he was given the number 3 Rife Universal Microscope
by Rife's colleague in 1984.
Along with the microscope came stacks
of original correspondence between Rife and his colleagues.
(soothing music)
The Rife microscope has been enshrouded
in not only a lot of mystery
but a lot of disinformation and misinformation
through the years.
And the reason we're talking is that back in,
I believe it was the early to mid 1980s
through a bizarre series of events,
it showed up in your life.
Can you share with us what happened?
As I recall, weren't you in the Bodhi Tree Bookstore
in Los Angeles,
isn't that where the journey began?
Exactly, you have a wonderful memory.
I actually at first heard about the Rife microscope
because I had been searching for a book
that was out of print that was called
New Light on Therapeutic Energies
by Mark Gallert.
I had searched for many years and then one day
I was in the Bodhi Tree Bookstore
in Los Angeles, California,
happened to reach behind a shelf of books and found
the book wedged back there,
and lo and behold it was that book.
And I was so excited because I'd been looking for it
actually not about Rife,
but information about Dinshah Ghadiali,
who was a color practitioner
back in the early 1900s.
Read about the Rife microscope in this book
and was so intrigued I called a medical doctor
friend of mine, Dr. Harry Lusk in Los Angeles,
and asked him if he had ever heard about this
super microscope.
He mentioned that he had,
and I was so excited trying to get information from Harry.
And he had told me that many years earlier,
probably 20 years before our conversation,
he had met a man who said that he had this Rife microscope
and his name was John Crane.
I asked Harry, could you please share his phone number,
can I get in touch?
And Harry said to me, "Steve,
I tried to get in touch with this man,
the phone numbers never worked,
I'm not sure."
I said, Harry, do you have that number?
And he said, "Steve, I have no idea where it is."
The next morning I get a call and Harry was stuttering,
he was going, "S-S-Steve,"
And I go, Harry, what's up?
He goes, "I stepped out of my bed
and there was a piece of paper on the floor,
and it had the phone number of this man."
Now I know this sounds a little bizarre
but we're sharing this story how it came about.
I said, well Harry, maybe it was there all the time.
And he goes, "Steve,
it was not there all the time."
He gave me the number, I was able to reach John Crane
of San Diego who for one hour continually
bombarded me with questions.
Who am I, am I with the FDA and the MA,
and eventually he invited me to visit him.
We set the appointment up for two days later,
and I told Harry,
Harry was supposed to go with me.
Two days later, as we're about to leave,
Harry who was a gynecologist
and a medical doctor,
had a delivery to make.
I had to cancel my meeting with John.
We rescheduled two days after that,
we were about to leave LA, Harry made another delivery,
and I said, Harry, I'm going by myself to San Diego.
I went down there,
met John Crane,
and after about four months of sharing,
he gave me
the Rife Universal Microscope.
The?
The one and only Universal.
Now many people have spoken about
the microscopes and yes he made five different models
but there was only one
number 3 Universal Microscope.
Regina, over the years I have had so many people
cross my paths,
especially during the time I had the microscope,
telling me they had the Rife microscope,
and they had original frequency devices.
Which obviously was nonsense because at that time,
which was from the middle of 1984
through the beginning of 1987 we had that microscope.
Can you give us some linage as to how Crane ended up
with the microscope?
Who Crane was in his life, for anybody who hasn't read
in any great detail about Royal Rife's life
and what occurred there?
The history of the microscope goes back
into the mid 1920s,
actually a little bit earlier than that,
where Rife was working as a chauffeur for a man named
Timkens in San Diego.
We'll skip a little bit ahead and just say that
towards the end of Rife's life,
he had been abandoned by most of the medical doctors
who worked with him out of fear and threats
that was coming from various corridors.
Because there was an element that did not want
the technology that went along with the microscope
to come out in the medical arena.
Because it was supplanting the use of drugs
and antibiotics had just come on to the scene.
Exactly and I'm very familiar with this because
along with the microscope, I had received
500 personal letters of all of the medical doctors,
all their lab notes,
all of their correspondences.
So we're very, very familiar with the story of Rife
and what was going on
including where the pressure was coming from
against the work that they were doing.
Are you at liberty to say?
Oh, absolutely, it was coming again
from the pharmaceutical interest,
it from coming at the time from
pharmaceutical families or families who have
very strong pharmaceutical interests.
A lot of pressure also came from the AMA,
who wanted a piece of the action of the microscope,
which was really silly.
Dr. Morris Fishbein who was the head of the AMA,
approached Rife and we have the materials
saying that he wanted a piece of the action
of sales of microscopes.
And of course Rife and his team at the time answered,
that was just ridiculous.
That's blackmail, really.
It is blackmail.
I have several letters directly,
especially from various journals,
that mention why they did not find an account of this
microscope in the AMA journal.
And basically Fishbein blackballed any of the doctors
working with Rife and really put a lid on the information
that came out in the medical journals.
Sufficive to say,
as lot of medical people abandoned Rife,
he spent the last part of his life really, alone,
became a drunk.
And eventually,
I'd say within the last five years of his life
was selling a drafting set to get money.
Where he was selling this drafting set,
John Crane happened to walk in to this facility
in San Diego,
heard the story from this man,
befriended him,
and Rife ended up giving
all of the materials of Rife's work
to John Crane of San Diego.
Why did he trust Crane?
And I wanna go back and talk about the infamous picture
and what was happening in the world of medicine,
with Rife's work in its prime.
But before we go back there, why Crane?
Crane was at the right place at the right time.
Rife needed the money,
here comes John Crane,
who had an engineering background, not in microscopy,
but had an engineering background.
And the two of 'em happened to hit it off.
Now I spent quite a lot of time with John,
and I would just say that I could see John,
to me, I'm gonna use it in a loving way,
was an old codger.
In fact when I visited his house, he was such a recluse,
all the windows were boarded shut
and there was hardly any light inside,
he really hadn't cleaned his house,
there were papers everywhere.
It was just very unkempt.
But he seemed to function
in that particular atmosphere,
possibly because he had also been thrown in jail for about
three years.
I wanted to ask you about that,
hadn't his office broken into?
And hadn't he also had some violent encounters?
Can you explain what happened to him as a result
of having this,
some would say an albatross,
some would say one of the greatest gifts to the planet.
Right.
I believe the history of people associated with Rife
can be summed up in this manner.
There was articles written about that Rife microscope
again in even the 1940s.
In 1964, an article was written called
The Rife Microscope, Facts and Their Fate,
by Dr. Royal Lee
of the Lee Foundation for Nutrition and Health.
He reprinted the article that appeared in the Smithsonian
in 1984,
and that article, as soon as it came out,
Royal Lee who was involved in the health field
ended up dying very mysteriously.
It was very unique because from the report that
I had received,
he had Strontium-90 completely in his body.
And the story that I had heard was
that the desk chair that he had sat in
was tainted and so he absorbed this every day
that he went in there.
My point is, is that--
Bad things happen to people who are involved
with this microscope.
Absolutely.
And I believe bad things continued to happen
for even the modern era people.
Okay, before we go there, 'cause that's a fabulous story.
John Crane has it,
he started encountering a lot of problems.
Let's just get up to how you got the microscope
and then we'll go back into the history of
what it was able to do.
After about four months of visiting with John
and speaking, and I think he was really checking us out
and seeing who we were and what we intended to do.
I told him that I was forming a worldwide health foundation
and that we were going to have this and protect
this microscope.
And then one day he calls me up,
at that particular time I went down there
with my ex-wife LaVerne,
and he mentioned to bring the station wagon the next time
I drove to San Diego, and I thought,
this is pretty strange.
But I went down with the station wagon.
As soon as I met him, and again this was in 1984,
he says, "I want you to take the Rife microscope."
And I was so overwhelmed, it was like, okay.
(both chuckling)
I signed an agreement with him.
Basically you had a piece of paper that said
if I was able to get it fully functional
within a two year period,
that I would have a partnership,
ownership with him.
Well in retrospect, if I had been a little bit cleverer
and jumped on that,
perhaps the history of the microscope
would be a little bit different.
But we really didn't do that.
We were just so overwhelmed
to have this piece of history
and all the additional materials that came with it.
So here we have this Rife microscope,
we brought it back from San Diego
to Los Angeles, California,
and immediately
the prestige of our organization
blossomed because people heard
we had the Rife microscope.
In fact Regina,
some side stories,
I gave a lecture over at the A.R.E. conference in Phoenix
about early 1986,
and was approached by two men who I had never met before.
And I'll mention their names, they came up to me,
and they immediately looked at me and go,
"Who are you?
Why do you have the Rife microscope?"
One of 'em was Christopher Bird
who wrote a book called The Secret Life of Plants.
And he had been seeking and looking for this microscope
for a very long time.
But I'd left out a little part
because they used a little bit of swear words.
It was like, "Who the, are you?"
(laughing)
and, "Why would you have that?"
Another fellow who approached me was
a fellow from Noetic Sciences.
He basically came up to me and said the same thing.
"We're with Edgar Mitchell's group,
and we're this big thing and you're a puny organization,
and we should have the Rife microscope and you shouldn't."
So I met a lot of people
who were very belligerent and couldn't understand
why we had it.
What I will share is, I didn't pay any money for it.
We had no coercion.
John Crane entrusted it to us
during the time that we had it.
We utilized that in a way that I think,
protecting it, caretaking it,
with a plan that we were going to put into action
until literally the microscope was taken away from us.
in 1987.
What happened?
I did a three hour radio program
on KABC Radio
in Los Angeles, it's a 50,000 watt station,
and I was originally supposed to do a one hour show
with Bill Jenkins.
The response was so overwhelming that he kept asking me
to stay longer.
After the third hour, we went from nine till 12 midnight,
that switchboard was just solidly lit up.
I actually stayed an extra hour answering calls off the air.
Two months after that,
three men approached me with John Crane propped up
between them,
saying that John wanted his microscope back.
Who were these guys?
Two of 'em were attorneys who flashed their cards down
and kept looking over John.
John absolutely did not say a word.
He did not seem coherent to me.
They said John had an agreement with you,
he wants his microscope back right now.
And my agreement basically with him,
or my philosophy of his life is,
he entrusted it with me at the time,
it was his property,
and we returned it.
I will share with you that this group of which they have
set up a foundation in San Diego and others,
had so much infighting, fighting over that microscope,
taking pieces of it,
that I lost touch with it at that time
because these people were like piranhas.
Absolute piranhas.
We had had a game plan
with our organization to eventually get this microscope
back out to the public
in a way where it could be validated
and have a lot of good energy behind it.
I'm using the word good because
as nice a person as John Crane was,
John was crazy.
John had been thrown in jail
for selling unapproved health devices.
He had million dollar lawsuits against 50 people
in all stratas of government.
He was not a stable individual.
And my fear was that somebody like this
presenting the microscope
makes it very, very difficult because
he would be torn down in his personality
and the microscope would not get
its fair day in the sun.
Which brings up a interesting point
that I'm very happy to be doing this with you
because I have turned down many opportunities to speak,
because a lot of the other stations or people
were combining this with UFOs
and all kinds of bizarre stories.
I like those kind of stories,
but I do not believe that they should be associated
with something as scientific and as strong
as this particular story is.
And so I've refused to do a lot of the stories,
and I believe that we have as much if not more
than anybody else on this planet
having to do with the microscope,
the back up information.
People have little bits and pieces,
but at one time we had probably the majority
of what was extant at the time.
And you still have a fair amount.
We do.
Yes.
I've seen bits and pieces, some of the personal letters
and such, from the day,
written by the doctors that were involved.
So let's go back to the glory days,
before they ruined him.
He had a couple of doctors that came on board,
very enthusiastic.
He had taken, my understanding, it was up to 30 years
to really get the protocols pat,
in terms of the frequencies and diseases and so forth.
Can you tell us about a couple of the doctors that came on
that were really key players in some of the results
they were getting?
The strongest ally he had was Milbank Johnson.
Milbank Johnson was the local head of the AMA
out of Pasadena, California.
Milbank Johnson was a millionaire,
also started an incredible company called
the AAA Association.
He was very, very supportive of Rife,
and we can determine this from all of the correspondence
and letters.
Now Milbank Johnson was so overwhelmed
by the early stages
of information he received from Rife,
that he contacted his good friend Arthur Kendall
of Northwestern University,
and E. C. Rosenow of the Mayo Clinic.
This really was the core team.
Those were the individuals that we find the majority
of the letters and correspondence
back and forth from each other.
Were these some of the primary people that were involved
in the famous study,
the clinical study
with the 16 patients?
Yes, the 16 terminal patients that went to the
Mary Ellen Scripps Ranch in La Jolla, California,
they were involved.
There was a team of doctors,
actually George Dock of the University of California,
there were several of these doctors who
were purportedly involved in this study.
Now it's a little hazy because
very few of us were alive at the time when this
was being done, and we can only go by letters.
I have a few letters talking about this special
research committee formed out of USC
by Rufus von KleinSmid who was the president of USC,
where they were talking about the study
and the results of the study,
and they actually had been talking about
some of the patients.
So there is information about that
that we have and it appeared, again,
that they were all clinically cured
by these medical doctors
who examined them before and then after--
And they were write-offs,
they were terminally ill in each case, I believe.
Yes, but again, in all honesty
we can only go by the letters that we have
and the way that they spoke about the cases,
and how they were progressing before they started
the treatments.
It would appear that these people really didn't have any
upside, positive potential here, at that particular time.
Right.
What is fascinating and the reason that I'm being,
not hesitating but just trying to stay with clarity--
Stay cautious, yes.
With the documentation at the time.
Several of those doctors would later recant
with letters to the FDA,
in 1964,
claiming
that they really didn't participate
in a study.
I'm sharing this because I have letters from them
back in 1934,
sharing information about these cases,
and talking about how they did do research.
But in 64,
documents were presented to the court,
this was a court case
where John Crane lost
and was thrown in jail for three years.
None of these doctors appeared,
but the FDA produced letters from these doctors saying,
we really didn't know anything about cancer
and we're not really sure about the microscopes.
But none the less, the 16 people,
14 write off within 70 days and then within 60 more days
the other two appeared to all go into remission.
The ones that had cancer and there was some tuberculosis
I understand in that, too, right?
Exactly.
The documentation is there,
the question is why the doctors found it so important
to recant at the end.
However, they did not appear in person,
and they were later both found,
the two individuals that letters were produced.
One of 'em was Arthur Kendall,
they could never be questioned because they died shortly
after that.
Again, you brought up a beautiful statement about
everybody around it, touching it, has had difficulties.
It's happened to the people who were looking
through the microscope,
it has happened with the people who have tried to hold on
and clutch that microscope.
It has been piranhas from the people trying to grab
and have their piece of history.
There has been
a controversy surrounding that microscope all the time.
The bottom line for us always to remember,
they were great researchers.
The documentation is overwhelming.
The microscope, I have researched it and continue
to gather data,
and my opinion of it has only gone up higher
and is never lessened one bit, Regina,
in all of these years.
It is truly an incredible story.
It's an unfathomable story in certain ways,
that these kinds of,
the kind of,
what am I trying to say that he's been exposed to?
In essence the witch hunt that occurred all along the way,
and still continues in a sense, to this day.
Was allowed to continue,
and that really there was no one that could stand up
against those pressures of the day.
I'm giving some PR to them,
we didn't have 60 Minutes,
we didn't have 20/20,
or we didn't have a Larry King,
where 20 million people hear your story overnight.
Right.
We didn't have that internet that goes all over the world.
So in the little pocket
where these individuals were working
things were buried over them,
were pushed over them so that really, it never got out.
When you look at the newspaper articles that appeared
during the day, and we have all of the newspaper articles,
the Christian Science Monitor,
there were things that came out in
California and Western Medicine.
There were articles the Smithsonian Institute.
It really, during a different era, would've really had
great PR exposure,
but during that period,
it was very easy just to quiet everything down
and slowly it sank and disappeared,
and was lost.
When I received it and was placing some calls myself
to different areas,
in scientific circles they were telling me,
it never existed, we don't have any information on it.
And that was clearly nonsense because I had it
with my arm around it literally,
calling on the telephone having people tell me
it didn't exist and it wasn't real.
And you also have the famous picture.
I don't think there's been any sort of documentary
or work done on Rife that doesn't show the famous picture,
where the doctors gathered with great hope,
what was it, 1930?
It was 1931, it was a dinner party.
According to the LA Times articles which we have,
it was the dinner party celebrating
the end of disease and illness.
Right.
And it was an incredible, yes, and we have that picture--
Which we're showing.
Now there's a piece of this,
if anybody is not familiar and watching this and intrigued,
you're talking about a microscope,
but then we're also talking about
a frequency generating device.
Regina, you are so wise.
(both laughing)
And really that is the crux of the story.
Because,
the danger to particular people,
and I'm using the word danger,
was not the microscope.
It was what was seen through the microscope
and it was the tool that was developed because of that.
To make it very, very simplistic,
because of the unique properties of this microscope,
any microbe or bacteria glowed
in a particular color.
A color is a rate of frequency.
So if we see a color, we can determine the frequency.
I'm sure you have quite scientific people,
but we also will have an audience of laypersons
so let's keep it very simple.
The idea is, once there is that color,
this is the emanating frequency coming from
this microorganism,
these doctors and scientists reasoned
by the law of resonance,
the same way that when a singer will sing
and hit a particular note.
A glass will shatter, but not all the glass.
Only the glass that resonates at that particular frequency.
So now they peered through this microscope
and they had, let's take a microbe of cancer.
I'm not even gonna say virus because there was debate
about whether there was really a virus cancer or not.
But here they had this microbe that they had isolated.
It had a particular color.
They then met with Dr. Lee de Forest
who was the father of modern radio tubes,
who had built a frequency generator.
They turned the dial,
with the frequency beaming at the slide,
they peered through the microscope,
and went the color went out,
the microorganism was killed instantly
the same way as when the singer hits that exact note.
The microorganism, gone, dead,
destroyed, finished.
And so they found the Mortal Oscillatory frequency
for 60 different diseases and illnesses
based on that.
So it was really the frequency device
that was the therapeutic part.
It's interesting if you read the obituary of Rife
because there's a quote by him at the very end of this,
and I believe he died in the 70s.
71, I think.
It said,
"All I tried to do was to invent
a microscope that would help people,"
but he never realized that
this firestorm
of things that came back at him,
all he did was try to develop something.
But it was a lot of vested interests
that really kept it down.
And unfortunately, has kept it away from people all over
the world.
Okay.
Yes, and that continues.
So going back just a moment to what you were
just talking about.
You had the frequency generating device,
you had the microscope that was sophisticated enough
to be able to identify the frequencies so that they could
then project the right electrical frequency at it,
and then destroy it.
But then you also had
a body of 30 years of protocol that were developed.
Now I saw personally, at the time, John Crane had
10,000 slides
in his garage.
In fact, he was having such a garage clean up with me,
the reason he wanted the station wagon was,
he wanted to give me more than just the microscope.
He was giving me all kinds of other devices
and he wanted to give me slides, and I looked at that,
I would've needed a semi-truck to take it all back.
And at the time, I was looking and I didn't see
so much of a need for that,
or maybe I was just being a layperson going,
I donno if I want
(laughing)
10,000 slides of something floating in the back of the
station wagon.
So I left those,
but there was no question that
however many years they spent,
they were great researchers.
All of the letters demonstrates,
and again,
these letters from the 30s that I have,
I actually have from the 20s, 30s, 40s, and 50s.
But from the 20s and 30s,
they never assumed that those letters would be made public
or become a movie of the week.
They wrote from their heart.
You could see what type of people they were,
what kind of researchers,
how scientific, how solid.
But now I'm gonna throw you a little loop-de-loop,
a little bonus here.
Kay.
Because, all the different microbes and bacterias
and health problems,
needed different frequencies
to devitalize them or destroy them,
which they wrote down.
One letter that I have
talks about one day,
something happened in their laboratory.
I'm just paraphrasing but I'll be as close as I can.
The individual writing said,
the machine all the sudden hit a frequency
and every experiment in the laboratory
was instantly ruined
because every microbe and virus and bacteria,
everything they had was instantly killed.
With this one frequency?
One frequency.
And here are the hints,
the mold
slid off the leather chair.
And one window in the bathroom
broke.
And we had to pinch ourselves to see if we were all
still alive, or we had crossed over to the other side.
(chuckling) Oh my God.
Because all the test animals were still alive.
They were still alive,
but every microbe,
everything, every pathogen
affiliated with a disease or illness
was instantly destroyed, Regina.
Do we know what that--
No.
With everything that they did,
I scoured, because I had every letter.
They didn't put that frequency down.
(discouraged exhale)
And remember, they didn't have state of the art circuitry
back then,
so the frequencies are a little bit different because
they would've not been able to have been held
like today's frequencies.
That was all they said.
But it was amazing to be reading this
and come across that where somebody says
we had to pinch ourselves to see if we were
(both laughing)
If we were still alive.
If we were still alive because,
and they said every experiment was ruined.
But they were being facetious because on the other side
It killed everything, right.
It killed everything.
Yes, every pathogen.
Absolutely amazing, and we to this day don't know
what that frequency was.
We have no idea.
Well, let's start coming toward this day.
In fact when we first spoke.
I was much younger when we first spoke.
Well it was a year and half or so ago. (laughing)
I was a younger guy with more--
With loads of hair, right? (laughs)
With loads of hair, exactly.
(laughing)
A flop-top.
When we first spoke, one of the things we started
talking about was this subject,
and it turns out that we had known some mutual people
in Germany that we had each interviewed
back in the mid 80s.
You were on the hunt back then
Right.
On another track entirely, I ended up there
because I was looking for the answers
having to do with vibrational healing,
and particularly color therapy which about the same year
you were reading about Dinshah and Rife,
so was I.
Which lead us both to a man named, Kurt,
and his famous Ergonom 400 microscope.
Right.
Which theoretically
well in reality had the capability, didn't it,
to do pretty much what Rife's microscope does.
Yes, but it was because of the Rife microscope
that the Ergonom 400 is being used in medicine today.
Because,
during our World Congress in 1986,
I had flown speakers from various countries
of which Bernhard Muschlien came in
from Wiesbaden in Germany.
We also had Bjorn Nordenstrom of Sweden,
who is the past chairman of the Nobel Assembly.
and Fritz Popp, we had a great collection of people.
Now as a special treat,
on one of the days I took all of our speakers into a room,
and hyped it up,
I'm an Aquarius, and made it really exciting.
And unveiled the Rife microscope.
These doctors, they were overwhelmed because
they really had never heard the story,
once they heard the story they were amazed.
Bernhard goes back and he happens to mention
to someone in Germany that he had just seen
a super microscope from the 20s,
and the gentlemen tells him, "Oh,
there is a man who's got a super microscope
named Kurt."
Kurt.
And Muschlien thought that was fascinating.
So Muschlien goes out and visits this man,
and comes to find out,
Kurt had developed his super microscope to examine
flaws in computer chips.
Right.
Had never used it, ever, for anything
having to do without.
(laughing)
So Muschlien says to him,
"Why aren't you doing anything in health?"
And Kurt's answer was,
"They have microscopes don't they?
They're using stuff
(laughing)
and doing research."
Not realizing that his is about 20 times more powerful.
So after he heard this from Muschlien
the two of them really started their researching together.
And so it was because of the Rife at that particular time
that Kurt's microscope has been used.
Well I'm going to see if I can
make this happen,
but they gave us some of the original video
of the AIDS virus
and some live cancer cells,
that they were working with at that time.
At that time, they were putting forth
that the cancer cell's actually a virus
that mutates.
Right.
Pleomorphism.
That's right.
And they were working on that and they were
doing video tapes of the slides.
So I have some of that
and I'm going to see if we can round that up
and insert some of that in this.
I may be able to help you.
Thank you.
Because,
we actually were given two videos here.
You were?
Yes.
I wonder if they're the same videos we were given?
I'm sure they were but,
If you have them--
We showed them in our 1990 Congress
but I had to sign something in blood
that we would never make a video at that particular time.
But it was showing the legionelles problem,
and the AIDS, so I do--
It may be the same one, so if I can find it,
maybe you can.
We'll see what we can come up with.
Yeah, and actually,
for better or for worse I did a story that was on CNN
on the microscope in 1988.
See, you have the glory jobs
and I'm a poor librarian
(laughing)
who works in catacombs all day.
The point was,
as glory filled as this job can be in moments,
why did nothing ever happen after that?
That's the only report I know of that ever went out
on this technology, which is the modern day Rife.
Now what's going on?
Because I lost track of them at that point,
and never heard anything about it again
except to see that it had been apparently loaned
to UC Northridge to do some research.
Haven't heard anything since.
What's going on?
I believe that again, because of the era that we live in
which is not a perfect era
where trust is at a premium here,
there was fear that having a wide disbursement
of this Ergonom 400,
would open and make it susceptible to be copied
and duplicated.
Therefore, at the time it was only given to
a few universities.
I believe a university in England and possibly one in Japan,
and a place in the United States
where they could conduct research,
and validate by grids,
what the true magnification is.
Because sometimes, people can use a projection microscope
and it's projecting a bigger size, but you're really not
increasing the diameters of your vision, there.
So somebody can say, well,
I have a microscope and it's doing this,
and all it is is just projecting the image
in a larger manner,
but you really not getting a depth to that.
But they did have the depth,
and I think that that's what they were examining.
The great fear that they had was that if they patent it,
that the technology could disappear.
Which brings us up, you and I both had a discussion
that the technologies were not the same.
Rife's technology,
and based on what I was able to learn about the Ergonom 400,
not the same.
In actuality, the Ergonom 400 might have
the greater capability
of great magnification,
that's what they had told me at the time.
Kurt said at the time that they were capable
of 50,000 times in natural light.
Now that's what electron microscopes,
which kill whatever's in there,
were doing at the time.
Things have changed since then, it's been 20 years,
but still nothing has surfaced any more powerful
than this for natural light, has it?
No.
It hasn't, those are really the two microscopes
other than the Nemascope.
Yes which is just on the tip of my tongue.
Now tell us that story, this is amazing.
The Nemascope was developed by an inventor
in Hollywood, California back in the 50s,
and supposedly
this microscope saw down to the atomic level.
This was not a wives' tale because
there is some paperwork left.
The difficulty was
that this Nemascope,
or if I'm pronouncing it incorrectly,
could be either neh-mas or nee-mas.
But the Nemascope was stolen
from the laboratory
where the inventor had built it.
Now Tom Valentine in Magnets magazine, September 1986,
wrote an incredible article about this.
He was very familiar with Rife and he said
the Nemascope made the Rife microscope
look like a Tinkertoy.
(chuckles)
That the pictures
that they have from that are so dramatic.
Now Betty Lee Morales, who was a researcher,
and from what I understand and ex-CIA agent,
started the Cancer Control Society,
or was one of the founding members.
Had the only book at the time of the Nemascope
showing these pictures,
which I was showing you a little bit earlier.
Unbelievable.
They are truly unbelievable.
And that just opens up a whole other aspect of technology,
which, Regina, when we really think about it,
there are so many things that are out there,
there are so many technologies,
there's so many inventions,
that whenever we think that we do know it all,
we find out that there is another great technology.
In this era that we have of wonderful communication,
in those old days or bygone days
where it wasn't so prevalent,
people made incredible discoveries that we have bypassed
and overlooked,
and all of a sudden they're bubbling and surfacing,
because this Nemascope is just incredible.
It was also never patented
as the Rife microscope at the time wasn't patented either.
And we had the Ergonom 400 at the time,
that wasn't patented, so who knows what's out there.
And probably for good reason.
Right.
Because they knew that's one surefire way
to lose your technology, (chuckles)
just try to apply for a patent on that.
Exactly.
One of the things that I find interesting
about all of this
is now we're getting the smaller,
more cost effective
frequency generators.
Technology is allowing for production of some
fairly interesting things right now.
And the protocols,
some of the protocols still appear to exist,
and there's continuing work being done on the protocols.
Now you're gonna hit one of my hot buttons.
Okay, let's hit it.
Because,
I am very frequently asked about the Rife machines
that are out,
the Rife Ray, the Rife frequencies.
It all began for me, about 10 years ago when a woman
from Canada called me and goes,
"Dr. Ross, I bought one of your frequency devices
and it's broken."
And I thought, you bought one of my devices?
We don't sell, we're a non-profit,
we don't sell devices.
There were five companies that had taken various radio shows
that I had done, and was using these radio programs
as part of their sales tools to sell their machines.
Well, I contacted them,
not looking for a piece of their action,
but in order to keep our neutrality.
And I just mentioned the L-word,
the lawyer word, our lawyer will get in touch with you
if you keep doing that,
which they very quickly stopped.
I'm not happy with these devices that are out
is very simply,
I am constantly approached by these companies
and by people who have the machines,
and I ask them a very simple question.
Show me a before used the machine,
and an after.
With a medical doctor examination before,
and a medical doctor examination--
You talking about the pathogens?
No, anybody using these machines.
I see.
Because I wanna see whether this particular machine
really is working.
Not hearsay, not a wives' tale,
and something else I always ask these people.
The people who are using your machines,
have they changed their diet?
Are they meditating?
Are they listening to different kinds of music?
Because if they are, is it the machine
or is it their lifestyle change?
Now here's the answer I get back all the time.
Steve, you know about the FDA and the AMA
and it's so difficult.
I said, look,
cross out the doctor's name,
cross out the patient's name,
but show me a legitimate
before and after examination.
And I'm telling you, Regina,
not one of these companies has produced that.
They use Rife's name,
and the reason this is my hot button is,
because of people putting Rife's name on a machine,
when the local state medical authorities jump in
and quelch that machine,
and put a ban on it in that city, state, county.
It's got Rife's name on it.
So right now Rife machines are banned in different places,
but they weren't really original Rife machines,
they're somebody's modern day knock-offs.
People believe that they're more intelligent than Rife.
"I'm a physicist and I know, and I improved this."
To me that's nonsense.
Is it possible that they may have?
That they may have a similar genius going?
In my personal opinion?
Yes.
No.
You know why?
Why?
You're being very dogmatic here, here's the reason.
Rife did what he did using frequency and running it through
particular gas tubes
to accomplish something.
He, as you mentioned earlier, set protocols for 30 years
and examined and documented them.
Right, because he had the Rife microscope. (laughs)
He had the Rife microscope and he could do it.
So,
I reserve my opinion
of how good somebody is today
until I see documentation.
Tiger Woods as great as he is in golf,
and he is really great and they're still sayin',
"It totally breaks Jack Nicklaus' all time
golf major record.
He's not the greatest."
And I'll say the same thing about these
modern day people today.
Show me 50 or a hundred
before and after, well documented,
30 year protocol.
Make it even a one year protocol.
Really solid, Regina.
Then I will tell you that they are smart.
But if I'm just gonna go by somebody's title,
I have been against that all the time,
because it's not the title, it's the results
that interest me.
I was a track runner, I was an all American,
I hate to have thrown that in,
but in my event in the hundred meters--
Oh, go ahead. (laughs)
Thank you.
You got in your blocks,
people talked all they wanted before the gun went off.
The gun went off, you ran in your lane,
and you crossed the finish line.
Then you knew who does what,
and who ran what time.
Right.
All we have now is a bunch of talk and hearsay,
and most of these people will go,
"Well we cured 30 AIDS patients in Africa
with our machine."
And Aunt Mary at work, and this person has this,
show me the paperwork,
then I will be impressed.
And they're not producing paperwork?
Never.
Not the before and after that I mentioned to you
because
I can tell you that we might be better results from people
being meditators,
and changing the music they listen to,
and leaving their spouse or quitting their job,
if they did it at the same time they're using the machine,
you tell me what you think might've done it.
Right, it gets muddled in that case.
It does.
Definitely.
And that is what we're seeing here.
Nobody to my knowledge with any of these machines,
and I see them all the time,
really has that kind of documentation.
Because we have new strains of superbugs,
it seems to me like it would be an ideal time for the
Ergonomic 400,
Ergonom, not Ergonomic.
The Ergonom 400
to make a resurgence.
We really need to be able to see what's going on, don't we?
Here's the difficulty.
The Rife microscope,
the specimens
were illumined with a color.
That's true.
That was part of what he was--
And you could almost work backwards because
let's say that we can see with enhanced magnification
with the Ergonom 400.
We still may not know what we're looking at,
and that doesn't mean that they're necessarily able to get
in the ballpark of what it would take to devitalize them.
Maybe they could look for a hundred years
at different frequencies, that was the beauty of Rife.
Is we're right narrowed in a particular frequency
because of that color.
Well, it can't simply be lost forever.
There has to be a way.
As long as there are
diligent, wonderful people like you,
who will continue to tell the stories,
(chuckling)
then it's never gonna be lost.
Then there might be someone out there like Rife,
ready to take this one up again.
Or there may be somebody out there, I've often said,
the problem in medicine
is nobody in a truly opulent position
financially,
has stepped up to the plate
and said, let's go,
and let's work in this energy medicine area.
This electromagnetic.
And really do a Pepsi Challenge
and see what we have
and compare with what is being used now.
When somebody really does that,
I'm gonna throw in some words,
I'm assuming we can.
When you get these people who've set up these
super funds of money,
the 20 or 40 billion dollars.
There is a big difference.
Somebody once came to me and said,
"You know Steve, I'm a little upset because I've been
solicited by the this society, and the that society,
and this non-profit,"
asking for money.
And I said to them,
here's the difference.
Those societies continue to say that they are going to look
and try to find the answer,
and I have said when somebody in an opulent position
comes to us,
we're not gonna tell them we're taking the money
to find an answer.
We already have the answers.
We're looking for the revenue to proliferate
what already exists
into mainstream medicine,
past the vested interests,
past the greed,
past the closed-mindedness,
and then there'll be a change.
The answer is not around the corner, Regina.
The answer is right here in front of us.
A resurgence of bioresonance therapies is in full bloom
with devices popping up everywhere.
In the end,
it has long been known that electromagnetic frequencies
can correct physiological imbalances.
There are many paths to that end
and we will be watching closely
as this technology progresses.
Meanwhile, the World Research Foundation
is a treasure of information on healing modalities.
From alchemical remedies in the Dark Ages
to the most advanced technologies today.
Visit the website by clicking on the link below.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(soothing music)